#A Walk Home by A. Shrimp*‘—If you have paid your debts, and made your will, and settled all your affairs, and are a free man, then you a ready for a walk.’* —Henry David Thoreau, Walking, 1862 The heavy vaulted doors of the school’s main entrance burst open as an afternoon tide of students rolled out to a sea of early April mist. A homogeneous swarm of charcoal tweed crustaceans diffused at the steps of a school yard that began the journey to a hundred ways home. Groups of scuttling crabs and crayfish broke into pairs and pairs broke into individuals, as each swam their own way through the cold grey atmosphere.
Who knows what nature of thoughts crustaceans entertain on their way home from school. Some, no doubt, are plagued with the judgments of their peers. The minds of others have already reached their homes and are now waiting for their pairs of stiff and hurried legs to carry their bodies to them. At least one crustacean walking along the gravely bottom was lost in his thoughts of how closely this great grey sea might resemble the more gaseous one that lies directly above and pushes the heavier one flat against the Earth. What life must be like, to not be like a shrimp.
The recent melt of the last remaining snow revealed a ground littered with mats of slowly decaying leaves. The once leafy oaks and maples, like petrified nudists, stood with their limbs raised and frozen in place, incapable of reaching down to gather their clothing. A stiff spring wind peeled back the edges of the fermenting mats and brought the remnants of the previous autumn to his nose. The evergreens, fully dressed in conservative gown and perfumed with piney cologne, looked down from their hill-tops on their naked deciduous cousins. "For shame", they thought.
Some of the trees and shrubs the shrimp had passed had begun to bud. He thought how alive they must be to have already pulled the sap from their roots, and to have pushed it past winter’s tourniquet. In a few short weeks the frozen nudists will be clothed, their gnarled hands will put on green gloves, and their woody skeletons will be fleshed-out in verdant tissues. The earth will warm the air and imbibe it with moisture until under weight and cohesion, the floating sea will detach and fall in long columns. 
For now, though, the shrimp would enjoy the chilly breeze and cloudy days, and the penetrating wetness of the early spring fog. He thought to himself how closely this cold grey afternoon must resemble the light grey depths of the sea where the light that has filtered through an overcast sky penetrates but a foot or two into the water that abuts a sandy shore. What it must be like to be submerged in that cold chromatic wetness. What life must be like, to not be like a human.
From a narrow tree-lined street, the shrimp entered through a wooden gate of long disuse and into a weedy field that had long forgotten the bite of the farmer’s plow. The mist that hung over the field seemed suspended from an invisible ceiling. Merely a foot of dead and clear space lie between the silvery curtain and the damp ground. The yellowed remains of dead and dried grasses bent low, as if they had succomed to suffocation but were incapable of merely laying down. The shrimp stepped off into the hypotenuse that would carry him to the far corner of the field. 
The shrimp felt the cold wetness of the air as it passed beyond the rim of his nostrils. The entire world smelled as if it were fermenting in this dampness under power of the latent heat generated by the activities of the smallest and most abundant of living things. Though this heat exists and even now generates the sour aroma of decaying vegetation, he could not feel it even if he were to gather all leaves and grass and decaying herb around him into a single pile and press it to his chest. Despite his many senses and his acute attention, life proceeded without his detection of anything but the scent of sour mash.
"Conk-a-reeeee," sang a lone red-winged blackbird from the solitary oak that guarded the innermost sanctuary of the field. The aged wooden knight, whose employment of guarding his king’s land had long been terminated, now, stood his post with half his woody armor strewn around him. The serfs had left the field and forgotten it. No owl had yet laid claim to the gnarled old man. The blackbird seemed to him as a fly might seem to a human. "Keep away from my ear!" The old oak groaned under a wind that ruffled the blackbird. "If only," thought the oak, "could I swat the bothersome feathered bat."
The blackbird had arrived early to stake his claim on a territory. Soon, the females would arrive and he, with his abundant land and towering tree mansion, would lay claim to several of them. The oak would find this out, soon enough, and would wonder how humans and other animals could stand the ruckous of courtship and the occupation of parasites. The old oak was hence unaware of the innumerable bugs, worms, beetles, termites, and spiders that already penetrated his cork and cambrium. Oh the amount of eggs and larvae embedded within!From behind the crooked oak a muted copper sun broke through the formless grey nimbostratus and sent a haze of its own to mingle and illuminate the mist in the field below. Standing between the young man and the sun, the knightly gnarled and sagely oak stared up at a tarnished Tonatiuh, that Aztec sun god also known as the fifth sun, as if announcing the sun’s presence and presenting the young man for the Tonatiuh's inspection. "The royal sun orders all things to put off Winter’s veil!", called the oak, quoting the first two lines of the third carmen of Carmina Burana. Omnia sol temperat, purus et subtilis!The young shrimp-like man, struck by arms of light radiating past the large oak, stood incidentally at attention as the hands of Tonatiuh revealed his misbuttoned shirt, the mud on his shoe, and the unevenness of his scarf. Unbeknownst to most, the sun is in fact, blind. It sees nothing and sends only uncountable tendrils out at infinite lengths, only a small fraction of which, return to it. Without disclosing his blindness or ignorance, Tonatiuh said to the great oak, "This man seems to be in order and fit for duty. Let him pass."
If the old oak had brows, he would have raised one. But he had not even eyes; nonetheless, had any brows to be raised over them. But, with no idea of the ceremony that had taken place, or that the oak had presented him to the sun as worthy of inspection, the young man put his hand on the oak’s armor and felt the deep cracks of it. 
"Earned by three hundred years of loyal service, my boy", said the oak. 
The sun’s rays trimmed the tree's mossy epaulettes and medals of a hundred glistening lichens and blood-orange bracket fungi. Looped under one shoulder was a fourragère, the remnant rope of a tire swing. A tumurous gall on the right of his trunk, contracted in the summer of 1913 when the field had been invaded by spineless parasitoids, forced the old captain to take a less than perfect stand to attention. Instead, the oak leaned to his left to relieve himself of the pain of that tumorous knob, the inhabitants of which, had long since suffered a unceremonious death. 
The old colonel welcomed the young man and leaned against his hand for support, taking some of the weight off of his left side. The young man, with his hand on the glistening wet bark, felt a deep affection for the old oak and in contrary to what he knew to be an unsafe strategy, would have sought its protection had Perkūnas, who’s aim was as blind as Tonatiuh’s sight, accosted the three companions; the young shrimp-man, the old knightly oak, and the blind sun king.The young shrimp-man made his way across the field and, on the other side, looked back at the solitary oak in the field of dead grass. The red-winged Blackbird was still flitting about the oak’s branches and the sun was still shining down. The oak was in good company. 
The shrimp turned from the abandoned field to face a field of houses. Each house was separated from the others by well-manicured lawns, rideways, hedge rows, budding oaks and maples, and newly cobbled streets. One of these homes was to be his for the night. He walked on to where the card station should be and thought about how things might be if he just set up camp under the old oak in the grassy field. Surely, there would be no lottery for it. At most, he would have to form one and bring it to public attention. Given the state of the field and its long disuse, he could not see how anyone would care if he just chose to make his home there."I could get poles, steaks, and a tarp to make a tent," he said to himself. The young shrimp often talked to himself. This 'off' behavior and his slightly below average height, less than 0.01 centimeters below average to be exact, had often made him feel different from others. Of course, neither he nor others could perceive such a small difference in height, at least not consciously. The shrimp continued,
"I would pitch the tent next to the old oak. Then, I could sit in my tent and watch for birds and deer, and weather. If it rained, I could listen to rain drops and enjoy the warmth of my stove and hot soup, or I could run out into the storm barefoot, even bare naked. I could spend the day living between the pages of a book. I could spend the entire month studying a whole collection of books. Then, I would write down my ideas and one morning, I would just wake up to the first rays of the sun, brew my coffee, grab my notes, and be off to teach about the books I had read. I would simply need to post a new lottery."

At the thought of the potential complexities of teaching a new class and how such minutiae was probably best saved for actual planning and not wasted on fantasy, he thought instead of something more adventurous.
"Maybe I would not pursue anything academic at all. Instead, I could watch the sun come up on one side of the field in the morning, set out for long walks in the woods during the day, and then return in time to see the sun set on the other side of the field latter the same night. I could tell stories around a campfire with friends, and sit back to a hot cup of mulled wine."The shrimp stood for a moment, looking down at his shoes through eyes that were still seeing daydreams. A breeze picked up and cut this train of thought. His eyes wandered from his shoes into the cracks in the sidewalk. He noticed how the small cracks resembled the larger ones and how each crack cracked into more cracks. He thought that if his eyes were keen enough, he might see the cracks continue to an infinite division. He thought, "If it were possible for sidewalk cracks to continue forever, getting smaller and more numerous, wouldn't the sidewalk disappear? Wouldn’t it be filled with cracks which are composed of nothing but the absence of sidewalk?"
As he wandered without aim or azimuth, thoughts of a cozy, peaceful, and happy life in a tent near the old guardian oak carried him past the neighborhood ticket station. He realized this and stopped. How far had he wandered? Was he even in the right neighborhood? He pulled the ticket he had drawn earlier at school from the small flap pocket of his hacking jacket. On the three-by-five inch piece of yellow-painted pine was the name of a small street, McMaster. 
"Well, I am in the right neighborhood at least," he said to himself. He looked up from his ticket, hoping to see a ticket station near by. At the far end of the street in which he stood, was the phone-booth sized ticket station from which he would draw his home for the night. Ticket stations, you see, were part of the lottery, and the lottery was part of nearly every decision everyone made that might impinge on or limit the opportunity of everyone else. You could not just walk into a home and claim it as yours. That kind of behavior would eventually lead to someone coming into your home and claiming it was theirs!"Hi there," Her greeting shattered his thoughts and jerked his eyes upward. He saw a woman standing directly in front of him.
