#Chramer, gip die varwe mir

The business district of Bath was located just south of the school and a half-mile or so north of the mills. The district was cut in half by Liberty Street, which runs north and south, and ends at Pulteney Park. On either side of Liberty Street was where the bartering and baking, mending and sewing, and coffee brewing and and beer drinking were done. Bicycles were fixed and tobacco was sold in small shops just northwest of Pulteney Park.

There were no employees, no employers, and there was no money. One might think that without plastic cards, paper money, or wooden nickels to purchase with, that a society would have no means by which to exchange goods and services in any standardized or reliable way. After all, who says that two chickens are always worth two hours of bicycle repairs? However, if society encouraged widespread anonymity, then capital and credit would cease to be desirable because they would easily becomes the means to recognizable identities.

Lest we forget, we are talking about a civil society of sentient and sexually monomorphic apes. By starting with a lack of population variation, they have reasoned to an argument for neutrality by consensus, not by majority. After all, as James Bovard said, “Democracy must be something more than two wolves and a sheep voting on what to have for dinner.” *Homo geneous* decided that each waking day should loose the memory of all previous days. Each person should begin with the same opportunities as every other, regardless of any previous success. If one man were to wake with ten dollars in his pocket while his neighbor woke with eleven, a day in Bath society would not get off to a very fair start.

Even throwing the level playing field aside, it would be difficult for anyone to pay anyone with such wide-spread anonymity, or at least, the wide-spread ease of identity theft.

In conclusion, in a society where anonymity wears a premium, credit and currency are either impossible to enact or run counter to the anonymity sought. Barter, however, due to the immediate nature, arbitrated value system, ungoverned and untaxed mechanisms, and the basic unorganized and simplistic nature of it, is always a possibility. I dare you to try telling a child it otherwise. I, of course, am not one to default to economics of children where one might trade one quarter for two pennies and think they have doubled their fortune. I am merely assuming that barter is so basic to our social nature that it cannot be done away with, and should, perhaps, be organized into something more useful than finding the exchange rate of marbles and baseball cards. 




Geographically, the business district was a bright and bustling neighborhood that ran eight blocks north to south and four east to west. It was mainly populated by row houses, street vendors, cobblestones roads, and low bridges that extended of the village’s canal and connected one side to the other. One corner of the business district was home to chocolate shops, cafés, and bakeries. Another corner was devoted to seamstress shops and shops for the repair of bicycles, shoes, fishing reels, and books. A third corner was reserved for the farmer’s and fish markets. There, one could find fresh eggs, freshly butchered poultry and freshly caught fish. One could find artisan breads of all shapes and sizes and artisan cheeses of sweet and sour sorts. One could find vegetables including varieties of squash and pumpkin, zucchini, beans, peppers, and onions. The last corner of the business district was reserved for miscelaneous shops and apothecaries. Taverns dotted the entire town but were less common in the business district.
The paucity of taverns in the business district was most likely due to that citizens allowed themselves on most days to meander their ways through the markets and shops with a warm mug of mulled wine or spiced eggnog. Mulled wine, spiced eggnog, hot rum cider, and even non-alcoholic drinks were available from a host of street vendors. Unfortunately for the tipsy populace of the business district, there was not a single straight street in the whole district. Each cobbled way led past closely spaced shops, under several narrow bridges, and then twisted this way or that down some dark and rarely visited alley-way only to emerge into a bright and shiny square of shops and public displays. It was always a welcomed sight to walk out of darkened alley or up from a dipping underpass and into a public square that was playing host to an art exhibition or a live performance of violins, cellos, and flutes. Every now and then you might catch a group of oboe and bassoon players that had gathered that day to play in ensemble. The business district was incredibly fun place to be at and an even more fun place at which to perform.


Among the citizens of Bath that were out in the business district that day shopping for vegetables, taking shoes to be re-soled, having shirts mended, and trying their best to not work too hard, one woman was out on a mission. She marched down Bugle street with singled-minded intentions. She did not window shop at her favorite corner bakery to whet her appetite with images of chocolate éclairs with custard filling, carmelized canelés flavored with vanila and rum, nor towers of intracately iced petit fours of lemon, orange, and cinnamon cake. She passed by the street vendors handing out fried-dough and samples of creamy Camembert on slices of green apples. She paid no attention to the currie pimps and gave no heed to the artisan bakers that called to nearly every passer-by ‘Allo, miss, try a piece of challah? Hi there sir, howz ‘bout a cup of mulled wine?’
The sun was not covered by clouds but hung shining in the crisp mid-morning sky. The clouds seemed to prefer framing it as to blocking it out and passed slowly around the sun as to not disturb the day. The people were out and the birds and squirrels were out with them. House sparrows chased after crumbs and chased each other, the males were ready to impress the females and chase off their competition. The squirrels watched this with great amusemuent, and were a bit jealous that they too could not flitter off into the air. Instead, they would guard small trees like sentries guarding posts and stand alert like guards in towers. The squirrels’ chatter was an alarm to any human, bird, or squirrel that came to close. ‘This tree is mine. Go find your own,’ they seemed to say. Even the hummingbirds were out! Ruby-throated darts animated the air and flew with wild speed and deadly precision from one firecracker flower to the next. Like any narrow-minded and myopic ape, the woman saw and heard none of this.
On a normal day in the business district, she would have enjoyed a leisurely wander into each corner. She would have stopped into her favorite bakery and she might have even taken a fried-dough to go along with it. With her mouth and arms full, she would have done her best to handle a steaming cup of mulled wine, and at being unable to carry any more, would have set down to a bench on top of a small bridge and watched the beautiful circus of shoppers, performers, venders, animals, and wanderers below. She would have noticed the weather and smelled the air, hoping to impress upon her brain the importance of remembering it. At her death bed, she hoped to remember everything she ever odor that awakened her senses and provoked an emotion and every sight that ever inspired her to care and philosophize. Now, she had no time for these pleasentries, these fleur-de-vie. She was in need of an apothecary, and in greater need of the blush and lipstick that one carried. Two minutes ahead of her, an interim apothecary shopkeeper sat down to his breakfast and that day’s issue of The Daily Bath.


The apothecary stood facing William street, midway between Concord and Belle. The shop had an almost indistinguishing front and, if not for the amber and blue panes of its sash windows, would have remained tucked back in complete obscurity. The competition among the citizens of bath to work as the lone shopkeeper of this charming and rarely visited shop, was high. The lucky winner would enjoy a day of reading and thinking among the rows of medicinal herbs like Butterbur, Feverfew, and Elderberry and could sip on the stock of herbal teas that included Chamomile, Lime Blossom, Peppermint, and Anise. The interim shopkeeper could dust off a small but ancient collection of references to natural cures and even unnatural ones that stood on the second floor. He or she could sweep the floor of the shop below and look about the quaint splendor of lightly varnished wood and old tapestries. One appreciated being in that shop and the goodness that came from looking after such a beautiful old place. 


The shopkeeper of the apothecary, of which the woman of the previous paragraph was but two minutes from entering, was enjoying a cruller and a black cup of arabica coffee. He had flavored it with a cinnamon stick and a few drops of vanilla, and was now entertaining thoughts of yet another charming and almost dreamlike day of doing whatever he wanted in the most charming place he could think of being. The shopkeeper turned to his Daily Bath and began reading. He read how the weather was to be shaping up. ‘Temperature’s to be in the seventies this week,’ he said to himself, ‘Getting’ time to plant my Basil and mint’. On the front page, he saw a report of the recent spread of Lunacy in Bath. He read how someone had convinced some of Bath’s men to defect from the neutral social contract, and to begin taking as they pleased. Apparently, someone had got it into their head that an equittable society that was only enforced by the citizens desire for peace and a wish to cooperate with one another and to equally distribute opportunity and responsibility, was not fare enough. ‘Damn Lunatics, runnin’ amok,’ he said. No matter though, tucked away in his charming shop that now smelled of cinnamon coffee and vanilla, he was happy. Outside, the day was sunny, and the air smelled of lilac, an early morning rain, and fresh bread. ‘Can’t ruin this day,’ he thought to himself.


Ding, ding!, rang the bell atop the door. Ten thousand reflections of a single woman glide across the ruby facets of a Musca domestica. A mini unmanageable spy camera, it observes everything and reports nothing. High atop its glazed perch, the stiff hairs on its thorax tell it that the shopkeeper’s hand is but two inches away. Through a chain reaction of nerve impulses sent surging through its simple brain and stimulating the hard-wired response to flee, the fly pulls back its wings with an elastic cord and lets go. It takes flight from the shopkeeper’s donut and disappears into the near distance. 
The vibrations and activity of the shop keep the fly alight and afraid to land. Instead, it darts and dodges with unpredictable and trajectory. 
How does a fly keep from getting dizzy and crashing into the nearby web of a patient spider? If we were passengers on its back, we would should surely get sick. We would cover our eyes and hang on for dear life. The fly surely does not get dizzy, as anyone who has seen a fly land can tell you. No fly has ever come careening into my soup or skipped across the surface of my tomato bisque. Without failure, every fly that has ever flown lands precisely and deliberately, without staggering or stumbling or tumbling out of punch drunkenness. Even those that have fed the spiders appear to land almost deliberately, and for this reason I wonder if flies like humans do not experience the hopelessness that drives some to suicide. No, a fly can fly in increasingly rapid clockwise spirals and then, in opposition to Newton himself, drop a meter and land without telegraph or pretense to exactly where it desires.
Despite outnumbering the neurons of a fly one hundred billion to one, even if we were passengers desparetly holding fast to the hairs on its back, we could not predict where the fly was intending to land next. But who knows how quickly time passes for a fly that lives at most a single month in its winged form. Assuming we might attain the status of geriatric, our lives are nearly nine hundred and sixty time longer than those of Houseflies. One minute of our lives is about 1/42,000,000 of its span, and by comparison 1/42,000,000 of a housefly’s life is equal to 1/42000000 of one month, which is nearly six percent of a single (human) second. By that logic, one human second passes for every sixteen fly minutes (960 fly seconds), and three human seconds pass for every forty-eight fly minutes. Though this logic might seem to be of a very ill sort, to you, I would ask you how it might feel if a clonal tree colony of Populus tremuloides was to consider you insignificant because you appeared to it as living for but a mere month.
 Our anthropocentrism is not entirely useless. It does apparently offer a currency by which to exchange time with other species. What transactions one might make with it. However, while you ride the back of the spineless wild beast with barely enough time to catch your thoughts, and certainly not enough time check my math, the fly has aged one week and grown tired of the naked monkey statue on its back. Even as it flies in mad circles far above the heads of the Shopkeeper and the woman that has just entered, the fly senses something precarious about the woman and something like fear in the shopkeeper.


‘Shopkeeper! O shopkeeper!’ she cried.
‘Yes ma’am, how can I help you?’ he answered.
‘Where is your blush. Where do you keep your lipstick?’ she asked.
‘My dear, my dear, whatever for? I see nothing wrong with you,’ he replied.
‘Of course there is nothing wrong with me,’ she retorts, ‘now, please, where do you keep the blush and lipstick?’
‘Miss, I do not think I understand your intentions. If there is nothing wrong with you, why would you need blush and lipstick?’ he asked.
‘I need to gain his attention, sir,’ she replied.
‘But you already fit-in perfectly, ma’am. I fail to see what other preparations you might require,’ he said, befuddled.
The shopkeeper leans in closer to her, looking for a scar or pimple or out-of-place dimple.
‘I see nothing distinguishing, nothing unique, and nothing special. I assure you ma’am you have nothing to worry about.’
‘Oh but sir, if I only had such a thing,’ she said.
‘Such a what ma’am?’ he asked, not sure if he wanted the answer.
‘If only I had a mole, or a freckle, or eyes of a different color, or a voice of a different pitch, or hair of a different length or style,’ she replied.
‘Yes, yes, surely then you would need my assistance, and I would be happy to provide you with the proper shade of cover-up or brown contact lenses or a wig had you been afflicted with such malformations,’ he said consolingly.
‘But sir, that is the problem. How is he supposed to recognize me when I am indistinguishable from every other woman?’  
The shopkeeper stood horrified at her words. He had heard of this before, an identity crisis, but never witnessed it. ‘Now ma’am, I am sure that you are just confused. Nobody is looking to identify you. You are safe here. You are not being followed.’
‘No, no, you do not understand. I need him to recognize me. What good is it if I can only recognize him, but he cannot recognize me? Now tell me, where do you keep the blush and lipstick?’


        The look on the interim shopkeeper’s face was one of mortification and utter confusion. The woman wanted to be distinguished. She wanted to be recognized. Why would a person do such a thing? What good could come from it and did she, could she, really actually suspect that someone was looking to recognize her? It made no sense to the man who had only yesterday been filling the position of Ethics of Identity teacher. Perhaps, the woman had engaged in pillow-fighting and had taken a heavy blow to the head. This has happened before, which is why nobody uses body pillows or extra-firm memory foam in sparring.


‘Uh well,’ stammered the shopkeeper, ‘We haven’t got any. Fresh out, I’m afraid.’
‘Oh no! Do you know of another place I might find some?’ she asked.
‘No ma’am, but I assure you, you look beautiful,’ he said in desperation, hoping that she would just leave and leave him alone. ‘What a disaster this day has become,’ he thought.


