#Ergodicity

*Erdodicity*, an attribute of unpredictable systems where the present state is independent of initial conditions, and all states are reachable from all other states.


They arrived at school fifteen minutes after leaving the park. Classes were rarely full, especially literature classes. They drew their tickets at the door, waited for everyone else to be seated, and then nonchalently as if not knowing one another, chose two adjacent seats. The teacher for that day stepped in front of the class and behind a podium. She spoke,


‘Good afternoon class, this is Classic Literary Fiction. Today we will be talking about a book we have been reading for the past several weeks, Great Expectations. Today, we finish that book and begin another, The Scarlet Letter. For those of you unfamilar with the book we are finishing today, Great Expectations is the story of a man of unbiased average background who, who through an unlikely but possible set of increasingly fortunate random events, repeatedly draws homes of increasing quality, employment of ever increasing leisure, and who experiences waves of unlikely fortune in encountering a woman who has come to recognize him and who he has come to recognize. Today, we will be covering chapter fifty nine, the final chapter. Please, turn there now.’


Each member of the class opened their copies of the immense tome to the final chapter. No doubt the class was comprised of people who had been here the entire time. It would be a mistake to think would could not win the lottery every time they played. After all, how many people are going to enter a lottery to read a seven hundred and ninety nine page novel that was written in a style that noone no longer speaks in? There were still three open seats, in fact. There was, to be sure, those who had dropped in every few days to catch up with the class and hear their discussion. It was even likely that, like Hungry and himself, others were here to hear how the novel ends and how another one, The Scarlet Letter, begins.
The teacher spoke,’As usual, I would like to begin taking turns reading the last chapter and then at the, discuss our interpretations of it any way we find to be interesting and enlightening. I will begin and read until the main character recants his affections for the woman he has come to recognize. She read aloud,
‘For eleven years I had not seen this place with my bodily eyes—though it had often been in my fancy in the East—when,upon an evening in December, an hour or two after dark, I laid my hand softly on the latch of the old-kitchen door.” She read past the part where he tells his story of this house, the early days when he only began to recognize his great expectations, and eventually to dread them. The teacher read until the part where the woman of the house asks him, “Tell me, as a new, new friend. Have you quite forgotten her?” She asked the class “Now, would someone like to pick-up from there?’ Up sprang Hungry’s hand. “Oh please, I would love to,” she said.
‘Very well, ma’am,’ said the teacher, ‘Though we typically play paper rock scissors for the honor. But, if noone objects,’ she looked around at the rest of class who looked around at the rest of the class, who were rather interested to hear the excited woman read. ‘Very well, if you will, ma’am.’ Hungry, with eyes lit-up, read from where the teacher left off. She read with such attention and enthusiasm, as if she were discovering the entire book in the last chapter, that she floated over the words, never tripping or stumbling, but eloquently navigating the near entirety of the chapter. She caught herself and ended at, ‘Be as considerate and good to me as you were, and tell me we are now friends’. The class blinked and shook off the trance in unison, having not not even hardly taken a breath the entire time while Hungry had read.  
 The teachers eyes, having been stoked by Hungry’s enthusiasm, were glowing. ‘That was most incredible!’ she exclaimed. ‘Can someone continue her momentum?’ she asked the class. No hands went up because no hands belonged to anyone willing to follow Hungry’s impressive oration. To prevent an awkward moment, Hungry’s companion raised his hand and said, ‘I would like to try.’ The teacher encouraged him to finish the chapter. He began,
‘”We are friends,” said I, rising and bending over her, as she rose from the bench. “And will continue friends apart,” said the woman. I took her hand in mine and we went out of the ruined place; and as the morning mist had risen long ago when I first left the forge, so the evening mists were rising now, and in all the broad expanse of tranquil light they showed to me, I saw the shadow of no parting from her. The End.’
 ‘Very nicely read,’ said the teacher, ‘And that concludes our story, ladies and gentlemen. I hope you enjoyed it.’ The teacher closed her book and walked out from behind the podium. She went to the corner and brought from it, a stool. She placed the stool at the head of the class, and, as if shucking a dry skin and constrictive skin, stretched and took a deep breath. She then took a seat on the stool and leaning in towards the class, asked, ‘Now, what do you all think about it and the way the story ended?’ Very Confused sensed that she expected something profound to crawl from someone’s brain, and in seeking fresh air and sunlight, leap from his or her’s mouth. 
A man in the front row raised his hand ‘Yes, clearly the two chose to be together, but it is not told to us just how that will come about. I imagine the author wanted to leave it open, but not without a classically romantic ending for a man and woman who have suffered so many odd turns. I think that both of them had difficulty in reconciling the morality of their probabilistically structured ergodic society with their increasingly fulfilled expectation of seeing each other. Their abilities to recognize one another planted the seeds of a true paradox that grew from the unlikely tails of a normal distribution.’
The teacher looked pleased with this response. ‘Yes, perhaps you are correct. Perhaps, the author did mean to capture the paradox of living within a peaceful and equittable society while wishing for an advantage for one’s self. It does appear that the author tempered his paradox with the ability of the man and woman to recognize each other. It is possible that our ability to maintain our society rests on our inability to recognize others. I am not sure how often we realize it.’ The teacher asked of the class, ‘Does anyone care to comment?’
Hungry raised her hand and spoke, ‘Yes, the paradox is clear to me, also. I also agree with the idea that our inabilities to identify others makes the equittability of our society all the more possible. I think that this is, in a way, a common realization or that our society has formed around it. Take for instance what most people would consider to be unacceptable behaviors. Attempting to identify or distinguish others and claiming to be identified or singled-out. Indeed, our public behavior is bent on maintaining our inability to single any person out. I think that this feeds into a realization, at some sociological level, of what it would mean to society if it were possible to permanently bias one’s opinion against others or to keep secret tabs on others’ whereabouts and activities,’
‘Creeps me out is what it does,’ said in man in the back, ‘having someone watching me, following me, and keeping tabs on me. Just imagine if not only one person did it, but if people formed groups to do it. Spying on each other and keeping tabs on activities of other people and even on other groups! I can see our society going right down the tubes if that happened.’
         A woman next to him spoke, ‘I agree with you. It makes my skin crawl to think that someone could be watching me or following me. However, I think our society is setup to ward off that kind of thing. After all, if the ability to identify others leads one to exploit some advantage in it, for say, personal gain, the equilibrium of a neutral system of coupled lotteries would naturally act against it.’
        ‘How so?’ said another man in the back of a different corner. He took a sip from his cup of hot chocolate, thought how the mini-marshmallows resembled a floating icefield in a hot ocean of cocoa, and continued, ‘If I, and I am being completely hypothetical here, were to somehow follow a person and learn their habits and preferences, as to say know how best to appeal to them or gain their confidence, how would a neutral system of coupled lotteries check that?’ This was not a normal question, as indicated by the turned heads and dropped jaws.
        The teacher spoke up, ‘A very difficult question to answer, sir. Ma’am, do you have a reply?’ she asked of Hungry. Hungry searched the teacher’s face and the faces of the students around her. She found no inclination that anyone had any clue of how to answer the man’s dark question. She looked over at her companion, searched his eyes and knew from this face that she know well so well by now, that he was perplexed. ‘Who is this guy?’ she asked herself. ‘How does someone even come to think of such a question, much less pose it as hypothetical.’ A mere three seconds had passed, from the time the teacher gave the floor back to Hungry to the time when Hungry found her answer. It took the fly in the corner forty-eight fly minutes to find the same answer, so clearly, humans are smarter than flies.
        Hungry replied, ‘The neutral system could not check a perverted desire to follow and spy on others, nor could it prevent you from learning how best to exploit them. However, if you chose to exploit them without their knowledge and without the knowledge of any other person, you would still have to account for their lack of being able to determine the results of exactly where they stay, exactly where they sit, exactly what they are employed to do on any particular day, what class they take, what bicycle they ride, what straw they draw, and the result of the coin they flip that determines whether they will enter a lottery to win the chance to enter a raffle. The neutral system ensures that none of us falls into lazy monotony or biased opportunity and advantage. Consequently, it would make it difficult for any person attempting to discover the whereabouts and patterns of another person difficult, if not, impossible. If you can manage to overcome that, then perhaps I will have to find another way that the neutral system would kick against your ability to exploit it.’ What a response! 
Even the fly in the corner had not the time to anticipate the booming roar of cheers and claps. The teacher could have died there and been happy for it, for this is exactly what she had always hoped to witness; a real and visceral argument about the neutral social contract. The man with the cup of hot chocolate glared at the woman, but remained composed. He thought for a few second and returned with another question. It the fly half an hour to happen onto the same querry. The man spoke,
‘Yes, I suppose that in this society, where so much of what we do depends on the result of a lottery, learning a person’s preferences and habits would be difficult, though not impossible. However, suppose knowing that the same person or group of people that enter lotteries for fire-side café seats were the same types to enter lotteries for seats in pubs on poetry night. Could I not then make motions to increase the frequency of poetry nights and by doing so, increase my chance of sitting near a crackling fire with a cup of hot chocolate? Could I not extend this strategy to anything I wish?’    
Another shocking question by the man in back, who it appeared, was intent on not only finding an exploitable hole in the neutral society, but enjoyed the thought of thinking about it. He certainly did not mind just putting these frightening ideas out there in plain sight, for better or worse. The eyes of the class were on Hungry and her eyes were on the man sipping hot chocolate and waiting for her answer, or more likely, waiting for her failure to find one.
‘Sir, surely you could help to increase the frequency of poetry nights and many might thank you. Doing so might decrease the competition you might face in order to sit at your favorite fire-side seat, sip hot chocolate and poke holes in the neutral social contract and the system of coupled lotteries. However, just because you get what you want by shifting competition from one lottery to the next, does not disturb the equality of the lottery you are in. That is, your actions couple the lottery for fire-side seats to the lottery for seats on poetry night. What you will have done is to decrease the competition for seats on poetry night and perhaps increase the value of being there relative to sitting near a fireplace with no poetry being read to be heard. Competition for poetry seats would still be neutral and so would be the competition for fire-side seats, though perhaps much depressed. The neutral society does not prevent strategy, only strategy based on introducing asymmetries and tipping the scales of equality.’
Without waiting for the teacher or the students, and without waiting for the fly to catch up, the man retorted, ’Would you then say that the greatest responsibility of a neutral society is to ensure equality of opportunity?’ he asked.
‘Surely’, she responded.
‘Then I would ask you, what is so equal about a man of large appetite getting the same size cup of hot chocolate as a man half his size and half his appetite? What is so equal about the vastly unequal results of an equiprobable lottery? What is so great about playing in such a gutless way that everybody wins only some of what they want, regardless of how hard they might prefer to fight for it? If I want to take the chance of going for broke for something someone else would not even fight for to begin with, why should I not? Surely then, those who go and get, get what they deserve.’
The class was utterly horrified at this remark. The teacher was too stunned to intervene. Things were getting out of hand, and things might get worse if Hungry failed to shoot down the battery of missiles the man had launched. She did not fail and did not even fail to take her eyes from him as she immediately returned fire.
‘Sir, a man given a cup of hot chocolate that is less than his liking could very well enter a lottery for another; a lottery that a man who had his fill would not enter. Indeed, the longer the man stayed in the lottery the less his competition might become. A truly gluttonous man could keep entering lotteries for hot chocolate until he had completely outlasted his competition. For what is equal about the unequal results of an equiprobable lottery, you should realize the temporality of the results and lack of memory in the lottery to bias the next results towards a previous winner or loser. To call a level playing field gutless is to call a fair and peaceful man gutless. Have you not heard that a weak man is just by accident, but that a strong but non-violent man is unjust by accident? Those in a neutral society value peace over possession; possession comes second to our own tranquility. What is the sense in fighting violently for a fire-side seat that offers nothing to those not seeking peace and tranquility from it? Surely, if it was just heat and light you wanted, you would have many other options open to you. If it was just the tranquility one really wanted, it is hard to imagine a person getting that via violent means. Even the desire to possess something that many want precisely because many want it, does not exclude entering the lottery for it.
I suppose, though, that the idea of not gaining something or of losing something of great personal value to someone who does not as much appreciate it, would affect anyone. I will not presume that people are so altruistic as to disregard that as a side-effect of a greater justice. I will presume that one must be rather selfish to, outside of rare circumstance, be so presumptuous to as know how much something means to someone else. Such a selfish person would probably presume that no person values what they value more than what they value it, and hence, that their selfish self deserves most what they most value because they value it so highly. That selfish person would probably fight to double their gain by draw and quartering that of someone else, and they would chalk it up to some Lunacy based Universe given right of passion.’ I hope, sir, that I sufficiently debated your questions or have provoked your interest to ask more.’ Hungry finished.
‘Whoa!’ came the class all at once. They was stunned and sent up another round of ovation. The teacher felt a growing warmth of pride in her heart, for the woman’s passion and for her society. Hungry’s companion was awe-struck by her defense. Hungry felt the small patch of sweat on the small of her back. The man in the back felt a tightness in his neck and a throb in his chest. He was thwarted, and in his attempt to rouse the rabble, he had instigated an argument with a woman who had stiffened the pride and faith of everyone within ear-shot. He not only failed to win the argument, but he certainly failed to win converts. ‘Well then,’ he replied. ‘I suppose one will have to watch out for those looking to load the die, weight the coins, and cut the straws.’ He, the man in back, took his hot chocolate and abruptly left the class.


‘Who was that?’ someone asked.
‘Maybe someone should go follow him,’said another, jokingly. Indeed, perhaps, someone should have followed the man, but with his leaving, the class joined in a laughing sigh of relief. The battle was over, the dark figure had been banished, and the heroin sat mounted in her chariot.
‘Well that was exciting,’ said the teacher,’ I have never seen anything like it. I cannot say that I have ever heard someone ask the questions that that man had asked.’
‘It was exhausting,’ said Hungry. ‘How does one even come up with questions like that?’
‘I would hope,’ said the teacher, ‘By entertaining a deep interest in strengthening a moral society by not allowing it to become disenchanted by either its presumptions or its distractions. Oh look how late it is!’ she exclaimed in surprise. ‘We had better move on from our discussion of the paradox of choosing one’s own future while living within a neutral society. I might add that the paradox that has caused this grand debate is illusory for two reasons. As mentioned by this bright young woman, one can devise strategies to arrive at personal gain without introducing competitive asymmetries. Second, one cannot and should not presume that the freedom to choose and drive to aspire would necessarily or even slightly less than commonly, produce the desired result. Indeed, the neutral social contract of a level playing field among coupled lotteries is much less restrictive than even many of us realize.’
This last comment lessened the severity of the previous argument in a way that only someone serving as the teacher could do, that is, someone who’s charge it was to incite discussion and then serve as referee and mediator. People showing up to teach that rather preferred to pontificate, quickly lost an audience. ‘Now,’ said the teacher, ‘Let us move on to The Scarlet Letter, a story of supersitition and self-deceit, alterior motives and internal affairs, individual weakness in the face of public admonition and individual strength in the face of ignominy. This story will introduce to you to the idea of legalism; a social contract of the non-bargaining type where citizens are subjected to punishment when failing to obey what a rigid and intolerant but influential minority has enacted as either a means of population control, exploitation, or misguided interpretations of justice and morality. Please pass these around, and we can begin taking turns reading.’ The teacher grabbed stacks of yellowed paperbacks and handed them to the first row students who passed them back.
 ‘Would someone like to begin reading at the The Custom House?’ the teacher asked. A man in the center of the classroom called out ‘I will read it, since I like it most, and I challenge anyone to a fist fight who thinks otherwise.’ The class broke out in laughter. ‘Very well, very well, sir. You have intimidated us all into having you read. I hope you can manage.’ The man, laughing at himself, began ‘It is a little remarkable, that—though disinclined to talk overmuch of myself and my affairs at the fire-side, and to my personal friends…’.

Class ended late, later than than any other. Hungry and the man she recognized, who’s head was now swimming with admiration and affection for her, separated themselves from the crowd that sought the nearest exit doors. As they, Hungry and her companion, made their way down a greenish hued hallway towards another set of doors, they heard the teacher’s voice behind them. ‘I saw how you two were looking at each other in class, and I said to myself, “They are pretending not to know one another.” and now here you are.’ Hungy and her companion turned and saw a woman not ten feet from them. They were, of course, clueless to who this was, as she looked and sounded exactly like every other woman.
‘I was the teacher,’ she said, ‘and I think you two are adorable.’
She turned to Hungry and said, ‘If anyone is smart enough to figure out how stay with the one they love in a society governed by lotteries, without breaking neutrality, it is you.’
The woman turned and slowly walked off in the other direction, ‘There is a one in four chance that I will teach in that classroom every Tuesday afternoon. If you were to show up eight times for good measure and tap your pencil six times twice, you might here someone say, “I suppose one will have to watch out for those looking to load the die, weight the coins, and cut the straws”.  
        Hungry and her companion stared at the woman as she walked into the shadows. They looked at each other and were speechless. Eventually, the man said ‘What was that all about?’
Hungry added, ‘Was she inviting us to come and see her?’
The man responded ‘I think so, Hungry, and she seems to be convinced that you and I have bucked the system, which makes no sense because you were just in there defending it.’
‘Well, half of what we were talking about in there was how to get what you want from the system without corrupting it,’ she responded.
‘Well, either way, she clearly has us mixed up with the whole wayward lover’s scenario in Great Expectations,’ he said. ‘C’mon I will bet that is beautiful outside.’

Chimney smoke incensed the air around them, and they breathed deeply through their noses to capture it. 

‘We need to find a home with a fireplace’ she said.
‘Absolutely,’ he replied.

They began walking, intent on finding an apartment with a fireplace. They walked past several ticket stations, she enforcing his disregard for them.
‘Let’s stay in East Bath. It’s a lovely corner of the city.’
‘Hungry, that’s three miles away. We’ll have to ride there.’ ‘That’s okay, I see bike station.
It’s just up ahead.’

Hungry and the man took two bicycles from the rack, though they should have drawn tickets for them. They rode to the outskirts of Tooley, a suburb of Bath, and came upon a pub. 

‘I’ve been here, it’s nice quiet place. Let’s stop and have a drink’ he suggested.

They racked their bicycles outside and walked into the pub. 