#Home

Hungry and Very Confused pitched their tent near the old oak in the grassy field. It was a simple home, made from eight poles and three large tarps. They fashioned ties, eyelets, and even a zipper to keep out the elements and mosquitoes. They gave it an awning, though not to screen out the sun or block stray fallen sticks from hitting them. They wanted a front porch on which the old kightly oak and the blind sun king could sit and recount to their adventures. They faced their tent from east to west, so they could catch the first and last of the sun’s rays. Hungry and Very Confused brought plenty of blanket, soup, and wood for the fire. The whole idea of burning wood seemed barbaric to the old oak, but he understood the plight of the poor furless and largely hairless apes. The days of late April were still cool, the nights were still chilly, and the rains were still frequent.
Hungry and Very Confused spent their days reading about the histories of the bicycle, architecture, and philosophy. They talked about Lunacy, the misguided and mathematically challenged Prophet, and their good friend Piss Drunk. They wondered what adventures he might have found for himself. They wrote poems and stories about biology, physics, and mathematics. They wrote about the courageous Knights of Enthalpy and their fight to maintain to form and beauty in Aesthetica, and to protect their land against the destructive and purely blameless forces of the Empress of Entropy. One of their stories retold the theory of Special Relativity using a multi-faceted narrative of characters who observed other worlds from distant corners of the Universe and who used their observations to shape their own societies. They wrote sonnets and verses about the beauty of fractals, the pliability of space and time, and the human complexity of their conscious experience. “On what canvas does your mind paint the landscape you see? Surely not the back of your eyelids.” They contributed papers to the mathematics of ethics and spent many pensive nights exploring strategies for expanding an ever less intrusive and more peaceful social contract.
Hungry and Very Confused took long walks through the forest on sunny days and rainy afternoons. They went out early enough to catch the morning dew, to watch the insects that drank the dew, to watch the birds that hunted the insects, and to watch the fox that hunted the birds. They stayed out long enough to see the rays from a low and setting sun shine through a green a canopy and fracture on the forest floor. They always took a blanket to lay on, a bottle of wine to drink, and a loaf of bread to eat. Such were the basic essential tools of observing Cloud toads in their natural environment. If it rained, they would visit the closest stream and look for Cloud toad eggs. They never found any, but found tadpoles of Eastern Spadefoot toads and Fowler’s toads that were eagerly pursuing insects that were eagerly pursuing saftey.
On one side, their tent could be seen from an opening into the field which was largely hidden by the leaves of the trees along the small and narrow foot path that led to it from a largely inconspicuous opening at the bottom of a sharp turn in a rarely used road. On the other side, they were clearly visible to anyone that had scaled a newly built fence and fought their way through the high grass and small bogs that had consumed the farthest portion of the field from their home. Though they were out in plain sight, it was as if they had found their own and exclusive paradise. At home, they never drew lots, never flipped coins, and never played the lottery. Their’s was the first tent anyone had seen in a very long time, and though they did not plan to live out their lives in it, they surely stayed for more than a day.