#Piss Drunk and into to the wind

At the outter edge of the west side of Bath, cobblestone streets gaveway to dirt roads, and dirt roads gave way to foot paths. He followed a footpath from a low hollow of pines up the slopes of the Bonaventure hills and, in summiting one, beheld an ocean of wilderness. Standing waves of granite mountain ridgelines gathered trees and moss from the deep valleys below; each with a thousand more waves behind it. What lay out there and whether any man had been out there was unknown to him. Whether unknown beasts would cross his path or whether unseen cliffs and high rivers would block his path at every blind turn, was unknown to him. He had enough food to last him until he reached a place that was isolated enough to settle and forage and hunt within. It was April and the days were getting longer and the nights were getting warmer. Small creeks and springs abounded. He jumped into the ocean, feet first.
His path led him through a field of Switch grass and Little Blue Stem that was so expansive that he could see neither the edge of the field or the hills and mountains that were surely beyond it. It was as if he had wondered from one ocean to another without climbing out of the water, and now found himself in wading in green waves and grasshoppers. Eventually the ocean of grass descended into a valley of pines and ferns. He kept along what now must have been a deer trail, until the forest gave way to small creek that flowed under a small window of darkening sky. That night he cooked his supper over small campfire and spread a flannel blanket on a mattress of pine needles and moss. He slept soundly beneath a cathedral ceiling of pine branches. The gregarious Harvestmen visited him, entertained his company, and even invited themselves onto into the folds of his blanket. He slept to a moonlight sonata played by crickets and catydids and an occassional Northern Saw-wet Owl.
The next morning he woke to the first rays of the sun. He laid there, at first, enjoying the geometric beauty of the pine canopy and catching the occassional red squirrel running through it. He sat up, and took-in the early morning scent of damp pine and earth. In time he would come to smell much like them, for contrary to popular belief, the pungeant odor we percieve on people is not due to living in nature and forgoing the occasional shower, but is due to living out of nature and foregoing the occassional rainstorm. He had the streams to wash his clothes, and they could do this even as he wore them. He had a pine forest to put on his cologne, which it did even as he slept.
The early morning sun brought a shower of orange hues that evaporated the coat of blue that covered the ground and trees. Once gone, the red-orange canvas of the pine needle floor struck against the black trunks of the old pines and their dark green flesh. The forest floor would have been bare, if not for the occasional of patch of ferns or a mossy outcropping of rocks. The tightly closed canopy only gave small glimpses into the sky above, and here where he stood, he could look out his window at a sky that was just waking up. He could have built a lodge here. He had brought a hand axe with him and could have gathered down trees or cut healthy limbs. He could have dug three or so feet into the Earth and built his lodge around it, allowing him to use the natural insulation of the Earth and pines. He could have fished the streams, gathered wild potatos, mushrooms, leeks, and onions. There was a blackberry bush not two hundred yards from the very spot on which he imagined all of this.
He could spend his days, fishing, hunting, studying the plants and insects, forecasting the weather and the seasons. He could learn the languages of Chipmunks, Squirrels, Cardinals, and Blue Jays. The work needed to prepare for the winter would have kept him busy and he would have stockpiles ready for the short days and long nights of December where only he and the deer would be witness to the lumiscent glow of the crystalized forest under a full winter’s moon. He could recount his adventure with Very Confused and Hungry, and how just the three of them saved Bath from a spreading wave of Lunacy. He could imagine Very Confused and Hungry living out long and happy lives. He could not think of them dying, but thought of it broke his heart and ended his daydream. ‘Onward,’ he said to himself. ‘Inward, into the wildness.’
He would walk until every want for Humanity had left him. He would walk past the desire to turn around and he would walk past his longing for pubs and apartments. Just walking was easy, but walking away from one’s life was as if walking through a syrup that became heavier and deeper as one went on. Eventually, the sticky hold would break and he would be free of care and concern for people, for pubs and taversn, for bicycles and clothing stores, for grocery stores and refrigerations. Most of all, he would be free of lotteries and the constant failure of society to attain equality and the constant failure of people to be happy with something as near as possible to equality when they finally achieve it. He would have to walk a long way. He might have to fall into calamity, overcome a sore tooth or sprained ankle, and otherwise be propelled into Nature. If so, that would certainly break the last sticky trail of syrup that bound him to mankind and propel him into surviving the wildnerness.
He lost one deer trail and picked up another. It led him across dry stream beds and slow moving waters of waist high rivers. He followed the dwindling path over grassy hills and hiked along it as skirted across sprawling valleys on the sides of hills too high to summit for the mere interest of getting past them. The fickle April day frequently change its moods. It shined on him through a cloudless sky and the showered him with unpredictable bouts of loud sobs. This time of the year, Nature cannot make up her mind, and might even yet turn an icy glance towards him. But, she always offered shelter to those who kept her mind. If you ignored her, she would remind you that you are in her house, but if you paid close attention to her, even when she seemed to ignore you or to even enjoy your company, she would show you somewhere to hide before she turned on you with empty blackened eyes and sabre teeth.

The foot path peetered-out close to the end of his second day. It ended just as it cleared the summit of a high saddle. This small dip in a long and narrow mountain ridgeline was only diminished by the two peaks on each side that stood a mere hundred feet above where he stood. He hiked ways up the sides of a small mountain, through tight canyons and thick brush to emerge at this door in the sky. He teetered on the fulcrum of a ridgeline that separated mankind from an untouched wilderness and felt it appropriate, even symbolic, to stay the night here. Looking out into the purple horizon, he could the see the walk that awaited him for the next day. He set camp just beyond the end of the path and cooked his dinner over a small campfire. He ate sausages and wild carrots simmered in the fat of the sausages. He sat on the side of the ridge facing the wilderness and sipped on hot cup of spiced rum, and watched a late April fog creep into the lowlands and meadows below him. He refused to turn for he might see the lights of Bath and long to return to it and to his friends, and he wanted to keep his memories unmolested by any homesickness. He would sleep there and pick up another deer trail the next morning. That night, he dreamt.