The Red Light District


Amor volat undique*
Amor volat undique,        Cupid flies everywhere
captus est libidine.        Seized by desire.
Iuvenes, iuvencule        Young men and women
coniunguntur merito.        Are rightly coupled.
Siqua sine socio,        The girl without a lover
caret omni gaudio;        misses out on all pleasures,
tenet noctis infima        she keeps the dark night
sub intimo                hidden
cordis in custodia:        in the depth of her heart;
fit res amarissima.        It is a most bitter fate.


*The 16th carmen of Carmina Burana

A man sat on the edge of his bed, looking out of his second story loft apartment. He had awoken from a nightmare, and though the memory of it had mostly evaporated, he remembered the worst of it. He had been standing at the sink in a public restroom looking into a mirror. As he had opened his mouth, several of his upper teeth slid out of their sockets and fell into the restroom sink with the sound and appearance of suckled peppermint candies hitting porcelain. Now, having felt that each tooth was securely socketted, he watched as two silhoutted figures ambled across Pickett street. Each person held a bottle that was either held to his lips or was being waved out about like a lecture pointer. The face of each man was illuminated by lengthy pulls from cigars that had probably frozen to their mumbling lips. ‘Damn Coliards, they’re wandering right towards the sirens. Now, they’re gonna wake everyone up.’
        
‘Corner of Pickett and Steuben, we’ll be headin’ into District Six now,’ said Pissed Drunk. ‘District Six? Is there somethin’ special ‘bout this one?’ asked Very Confused. ‘Well, it’s the people here. They’re more defensive than most, about keeping the status quo, that is,’ said Pissed Drunk ‘I think it’s all on account of their recent inconsistencies.’ ‘Inconsistencies?’ asked Very Confused. ‘Well,’ said Pissed Drunk, ‘Seems they keep endin’ up with too many females over here. Apparently, it keeps getting’ worse and nobody knows why. Ticket stations are fine, no obvious tamperin’, but still, each day they end up with more and more women.’ 
Pissed Drunk continued ‘Here ya got a entire society built on the idea that absolute equal individ’al probability, all the way down to equal chances of procreatin’ a boy or girl, will create absolutely equal opportunities among each and every individ’al. Now, if for no rhyme or reason you get an island in that society, a place where even odds even-out to odd ends, then even the most even-minded individuals will start to wonder. But nothin’s broke, it’s all workin’ the way it should. It just ain’t workin’ the way they thought it might.’ ‘Well, if the system is working and it’s givin’ equal chances to everyone, why does this district keep gettin’ more and more women?’ asked Very Confused.
Their conversation came to a halt as they rounded the corner of Abbey and Greystone. There, walking toward them was a group of seven women. ‘A bit late to be out wandering about,’ one woman said. ‘It’s a cold night, you know, a lot of people need help finding a place to stay tonight,’ said another woman. ‘We can help you find a nice warm place to stay,’ said yet another as the pack of women advanced on them. ‘No thanks ma’am. We’re just takin’ a stroll ‘round the block. Headin’ home now, as a matter o’fact’ replied Very Confused. The women were only twenty or so yards away. ‘Men are getting scarce around here, we really should escort you home.’
At this, Pissed Drunk realized what was happening, and as if having realized it in a dream, woke to announce the news. ‘They’re trying to kidnap us!’ his eyes widened in disbelief and were quickly followed by a smile that split his face from one ear to the other. Very Confused turned toward him, his faced strained to convey his words ‘We can’t stay. Hungry needs our help,’ and turning to the women, said ‘Kidnapping and all, it’s not very equittable is it?’ The women stopped, a mere ten feet from them. ‘We’re just evening things out.’ One of them replied. ‘So you’re going to corrupt the system in order to give the appearance that the system isn’t corrupt?’ asked Very Confused. ‘No, they’re going to currupt the system in order to give the appearance that the system is working as it was intended to,’ said Pissed Drunk. ‘No, we’re going to currupt the system to correct it,’ said the woman, ‘Get them!’ That night, two drunk men ran away from seven identically attractive and lonely women.
The two men sprinted up and down alleys, cut through yards and over fences, until the voices of the women and the clack of their shoes faded. The pub stood on the corner of a business section of town lined with two and three story brick buildings. It had been converted from a filling station some years back, and though the pumps were now out of order and the overhead fluorescents had long expired, the large pane glass windows remained intact and transparent. As they approached, they could see a small bar glowing with pink and blue neon, behind which stood the bartender and a modest gathering of bottles. They entered the bar and were immediately greeted by the bartender, ‘Evenin’! Glad to see some smilin’ faces. Get’s a bit lonely in the wee hours.’ It was now nearly one thirty in the morning. ‘How’s ‘bout a few pitchers, barkeep?’ asked Pissed Drunk. 
Mind if we stay here a few hours?’ asked Very Confused ‘We’ve been bar hopping for days now.’ The bartender replied ‘Not at all, you can catch some shut-eye the bartender’s quarters. There’s a room just up them stairs’ and he pointed to a door that led through a narrow hallway and up a makeshift set of steps that breached an attic-turned apartment. 


‘Fantastic, where do I draw a ticket?’ The heads of the patrons seated around the bar swiveled on their necks toward Very Confused. ‘There’s no tickets to be drawn here,’ said the bartender, ‘Besides, you two are the only ones vying for that room. No ticket needed.’ This oddity struck Very Confused as, well, odd. No matter though, the two weary compionated Goliards drug themselves upstairs, found two soft and quilted beds, and laid down their weary heads. The bartender took his cup of hot chocolate, briefly noticed how the mini-marshmallows looked like a cobble-stone field over top a deep chocolatey lake, and thought how well the Universe was behaving itself.