#The Montecristo 

Ego sum abbas*

Ego sum abbas Cucaniensis       I am the abbot Busoni.
et consilium meum est cum bibulis,        My house is one of drinkers.
et in secta Decii voluntas mea est,        I am monsieur Zaccone,
et qui mane me quesierit in taberna,        who in Montecristo lingers,
post vesperam nudus egredietur,        I am Edmond Dantès,
et sic denudatus veste clamabit:                and I will strip the Baron’s fingers:
   Wafna, wafna!        Woe! Woe!
quid fecisti sors turpassi                what have you done, vilest Fate?
Nostre vite gaudia        the joys of my life
abstulisti omnia!                you have taken all away!


*This fourteenth carmen has been reinterpreted for The Count of Monte Cristo and includes the alliases of The Coun. The Baron Danglars was the main, but unworthy, villain


        The two men, despite being Very Confused and Pissed Drunk, arrived at Cigar and Wine Bar #4 before midnight. Stumbling through heavy crimson doors, they found themselves enveloped in the musky sweet smell of fine tobaccos and myrr. The strength of the aroma carried the weight of the entire ceiling while the walls strained under countless bottles of Brandy, Burgundy, and Bordeaux. Dusky lamps drizzled light down the faces of patrons and struck shadowed crags under their brows and cheekbones, while tendrils of smoke wound around their necks and stretched upwards to hang each one from barely visible chandeliers. This place was the oozing dark chocolate side of swanky, and its heart was an incensed ball of tar that had been soaked in black muscat and encased in brass-trimmed mohagony.
        Outside, shards of ice formed over shallow puddles, while inside, the thin film of persperation on their exposed skin mingled with the aromas of fermented tobacco. The spirits of the two men were lifted and carried away by the rising cigar smoke while their bodies fused to the atmosphere and became its hostages. ‘Please gentlemen, right this way’. A employee took their coats and led them across a scarlet carpet to a leather sofa near a rear corner of the bar. ‘Have a seat, review our selections, enjoy the music and readings.’                     
        The chestnut sofa had a warmth of its own, and like a giant upholstered amoeba, engulfed them as they sank onto it. Barely able to will themselves to move, they surveyed their surroundings with the motionless bodies and limp necks of sleepy newborn children. ‘And now, a story of unjust imprisonment, self-discovery, and revenge; The Count of Monte Cristo’ announced a man seated near the front window. As he began reading, he played a slow-moving sonota on the cello. 


‘On the 28th of February, 1815, the watch-tower of Notre-Dame de le Garde signalled the three-master, the Pharaon, from Smyrna, Trieste, and Naples…’


        The reader stopped looking at his book, but continued to tell his story as if he had been there and as if he were taking everyone in the bar there with him.


‘The ship drew on…and approached the harbor under topsails, jib, and foresail, but so slowly and sedately that the idlers, with instinct which misfortune sends before it, asked one another what misfortune could have happened on board.’


He played his sonatina as he narrated. The flow of its somber tide pulled their hearts from them, leaving a hole in their chests for their softened minds to settle within. ‘Your wine and cigars, gentlemen,’ said their host, and served them each a vitola and a glass of Bordeaux Superieur.
The cigars, long and weighty, felt as if they were wrapped in layers of silk and lubricated with the lightest oil. They ran their noses along them and inhaled the scent of toasted vanillin oak and new leather. Taking a pair of brass cutters from the table between his thumb and forefinger, Very Confused cut the cap from his cigar and held the opened foot to his nose. Those same scents now rushed in with such intensity that he could taste them on his tongue. Lighting a long wooden cigar match, he toasted the outside wrap and binding, turning it in his hand as one might turn a glazed and skewered prize pig.
As Very Confused set to lighting his cigar, Pissed Drunk held his wine glass on edge against a distant candlelight and examined the array of sanguin hues stretching from the blackened core to amber halo. 
After swirling his glass and coating the edges, he stuffed his nose far inside, so that the rim pushed against brow and cheeks. Inside the crystal cavern he found an oak spice rack of aged nutmegs and cinnamon bark adorned with bouquettes of freshly picked wild roses. However hard he closed his eyes and tried to block the world outside of his glass, the syrupy thick voice of the reader still spilled through and echoed off the inside of his warm aromatic cave. 
        As the reader continued, the two men found (paragraph relating their wine and cigars to sensory experiences of the story). 
        Seated around them were other patrons, each either lounging backwards or hunching forwards but none capable of rigid posturing that accompanies an eager mind. Each patron was either so captivated by the story, hypnotized by the music, sedated by the alcohol, or otherwise mesmerized by the sultry varnish of their surroundings, that every care within had been exhaled and now lingered high above in a blanket of cigar smoke. However, as the reader spoke the passage:
        ‘You will excuse my leaving you,’ said the count, turning in the direction of his loge.’ ‘What! Are you going?’ ‘Pray, say every thing that is kind to Countess G— on the part of her friend the Vampire.’


Very Confused realized that they had forgotten all about Hungry, the White House, and their situation. And with the reader now half-way through page four hundred and sixty two, ‘Pissed Drunk, look alive! We’ve been here nearly two days!’ Pissed Drunk’s eyes slowly turned from his cigar, now his sixth, ‘You’re insane, it’s barely…’ his eyes turned to the walls for a clock, but found none. ‘Barkeep! What time do you have?’ the bartender responded ‘ten ‘till one, sir.’ ‘You see, Very Confused, we’ve barely been here an hour.’
        ‘I suppose that man read four hundred and sixty two pages in one hour. And I suppose you smoked six thirteen centimeter cigars in a single hour? Pissed Drunk, we need to leave.’ Piss seemed to dismiss all of this, waving his hand and looking off towards a group of patrons that had been struck dumb by the green fairy. ‘Oh my!’ he said as his spine stiffened. ‘Is everything alright gentlemen?’ asked their host. ‘You look a bit tense. How about another glass?’ ‘No thank you,’ replied Very Confused, ‘We had best be going.’ ‘But sirs,’ said the host as the two men headed for the door, ‘What can you get out there, that you can’t get in here?’ ‘Hungry!’ replied the two men as they dashed through the front doors.
        Outside, the air was dry and steely cold, and it quickly brought them to their senses. ‘What was that?’ said Very confused, as if he’d just walked from a haunted house. ‘That, my friend, was a Trojan Horse of sorts. Set up to lure in unsuspecting patrons. Once you’re in, it’s hard to leave…as you know, time just slips away. You can’t last long smokin’ cigars and drinkin’ booze like that, even with meat, cheese, and olive trays. Eventually, you just waste away. Damn fancy roach trap is what it is.’
‘We’re lucky we got out in time. It’s been two days since we’ve had a glass of water. Unfortunately, every bit of water out here has got to be frozen solid. It’s damn frigid out! We need to get to the next pub before we freeze,’ said Very Confused. ‘Absolutely, now it’s only a mile ‘till the next one. It’s a warm little hole in the wall, and we’ll be able to regroup without any hassle. Actually, I think I forgot somethin’’ and he dashed inside what would later be called The Montecristo. ‘Pissed Drunk, are you insane?!’ A few seconds later, Pissed Drunk burst through the crimson doors with two fistfuls of cigars and was cradling several bottles of fine wine. He didn’t stop at Very Confused but instead bolted past him yelling ‘Run for it!’
The two sprinted for three blocks, with Pissed Drunk highstepping to avoid any unseen obstacles that his payload hid and Very Confused followed closely behind grabbing up the cigars that tumbled from his point man’s pockets. ‘Okay, okay, nobody’s following us, please stop,’ begged Very Confused. Pissed Drunk came to a halt and squatted down on a curb, bracing himself against a telephone pole. ‘Oh man, you should’ve seen’em!’ said Pissed Drunk through steamy breath. ‘I rushed in, snatched a cutter and matches, dumped some cigars in my overcoat pockets, and snatched four bottles from wall. They just stood there, completely dumbfounded! Didn’t anyone chase after us?’
‘No,’ replied Very Confused, ‘nobody at all.’ ‘Well, that’s odd,’ said Pissed Drunk, ‘Surely they don’t just let people come in and ransack the place?’ ‘No, you’re right, but I bet they were a bit shocked. First, to see two patrons rushing out into the cold and leaving all of that behind, and second, to see one patron rush-in like a madman and start yanking bottles of wine and filling his pockets!’ The two laughed so hard and so long that they rocked back and forth trying to relieve the pain that comes from sprinting three blocks pissed drunk after breathing heavy cigar smoke for two days and then stopping to laugh about it in the freezing night air, which as a matter of fact, was so cold and so dry that it nearly took their breath away.
After recovering from their escape, the two decided to find a drink of water. Of course, all outside sources such as public scuttlebutts had been turned off and bled for sake preventing a breakage. ‘How far ‘till the next pub, Pissed Drunk.’ ‘Now? About seven blocks. We’ll get water when we get there. For now, we gotta keep up appearances. Let’s toast,’ and they opened a bottle of Chassagne-Montrachet Premier Cru and a bottle of Chambertin.               