#Of Christmas lights, Lightning bugs, and Lightning strikes

Amid a pitch winter ocean, stars and icy currents stay my imagination for what life could persist in this void. How far have we travelled and how deep does this ocean of blackness extend? We walk in what feels like a straight line, but had we travelled in circles for hours, we would not have known it. A straight line is the greatest distance between where you are now and where you could have traveled from, in a given amount of time. If we were to reach anywhere in the fastest way possible, we would do well to travel in a straight line.
My hand floats someone where in front of me as my eyes float some where above my legs. Had I not felt the Earth below my feet, I would have thought myself dead and wandering around in a boundless limbo or asleep and wandering for a million miles and a thousand years inside the confines of my own mind. What would we look like to some happy nocturnal creature who’s eyes are adapted to this darkness? Would we appear as the undead, stumbling and dragging our feet with wide and stupid eyes that pulled at our necks and craned them forward, in some mad attempt to search out an available meal? What if I fell here and gave up? It was not unimaginable to lean forward, close my eyes, and simply fall into oblivion. Surely, the cold would kill me within minutes of being still. I could even fall backwards into an infinite dream of stars and planets and nebulas. What, besides the strain and effort to walk, would allow me make out the difference out here? Perhaps, if I find myself reenergized and my steps light, I will find myself already dead.
A light! In the distance a light shines too bright to be a distant start and too low to belong to a near planet. It cannot be more than a few miles away. Perhaps, it is the window of a house, lighted and warmed by the heat and glow of a fireplace. We can make it to that light. We could walk with only its glint in our eyes, with no other bearing or azimuth and without regard to what we must walk across, we can make it to that light. I forget my plans to die with a billion stars and planets dancing over my wet unblinking eyes.
The once, small speck of white light grows in the distance. The way between it and us is clear and uninterrupted. If we were to fall forward five thousand times, catching myself first with one foot and then with another, I would surely make it there. I can at least do that much. Falling forward and sinking my weight onto one leg and then another, I see the speck of light grow in front of me. It becomes more than a speck but a spot and eventually the spot of white separates into beams of color. What once was a small speck, almost indistinguishable from the while light of a far off star, has now separated into brilliant strings of rainbow. Christmas lights!
Tentacles of many-colored Christmas lights adorn a distant and remote house. There is no moonlight to reflect off the snowy earth or to reveal its rolling hills and hidden valleys. We have no light to illuminate our way as we float over an unseen ground and wade our way through a loose and invisible firmament. We drag our bodies towards a symphony of color. From the undulations of fading colors we can dain the scarcest outline of the house. How inviting it looks. What warmth and safety there must be in that festive cabin. A stiff wind blows and sends strings of colors undulating in bands of luminescing precious stones. Rubies, intense and lit from within, fade out and Emeralds replace them. The deep green barely escapes the faceted bulbs and is nearly pulled inwards under its own gravity; an impending event horizon that would capture its own brilliance and pull the light from citrines and saphires into it. We are closer to the house now, and notice that as we have stopped, it has kept moving. Red fades to green, green gives way to yellow, and so on.
Christmas lights that fade from one color to next are the most beautiful. I could stare at them for hours and have wasted many opportunities to dream happy fantasies on many Christmas nights. They would entrance me and draw me in as one color faded into another. There was always something greater in them than Christmas toys, stockings, spiced egg-nog, and the smell of pine needels. I would allow myself to be pulled into the bulb so much as to see the other side of it. I knew there was little to it but copper wire, colored glass, and an excited tungsten filament, but ah, there was always something much more sublime than that. Something in Christmas lights did not begin in the bulb, but began in me and illuminated through the bulb for my own meditations. I knew this as a little boy, perhaps, as many little boys do, that in staring at Christmas lights something in the Universe reveals itself, and so, we reveal ourselves through them. Christmas lights are perfect mirrors.
We are nearly at the source of the lights, nearly at that warm house. We can see a tendril of smoke escaping its chimney. As I make my way closer, the lights illuminate my body with their glow and paint my grey back. My beaded black eyes reflect the ballet of color. Smoke from the chimney seems to reach down to me and fill my nose with pine. To my surprise, the house is shifting; it is pulsating. Alas, the smoke is not smoke at all, but a living and gripping and stinging thing. It drags me in and shoots in pain. My body writhes with it and all ten legs shudder in uncontrollable waves of shocking fear. The pulsing house pulls me in through its chimney and down into its fireplace. Mertensia ovum are shrimpkinds most perfect horrors.

