# My Plight

I write these notes from a cell and think of how prisoners and cloistered monks refer to their small confines as cells as well. To one it's a prison and to the other, a retreat for a contemplative life free from pressure to pursue a wife. I suppose it is the negative relationship between the exercise of individual liberty and incredible violence that makes the cells of monks with strong convictions and the cells of convicts with weak or false convictions differ most. A monk can generally take a walk when he wishes, but a convict generally expects to eventually be set free *before* dying.

As a prisoner, I cannot come and go as I please. As a monk, I am free to contemplate on what has been revealed to me and on what has been kept a mystery. I studied *Homo geneous* in isolation for nearly three years while also trying to find my way home. When I succeeded in returning home, I failed for a year to rediscover *Homo geneous*. As far as I know, I am the only member of our species to have witnessed a living *Homo geneous*, or to at least have known I have. As far I know, they have been found already.

Discovery of the sexually homogeneous species of human, *Homo geneous*, marked a turning point in our knowledge of human evolution and likewise, in our place in the world as the only sentient and philosophical species. The global community of *Homo sapiens* once stood ready to make first contact with its lost sister species. Everyone simply assumed that I would reveal where I had made my discovery. Truth be told, it took me more than a year to replicate it.For weeks, I presented the story of my discovery to audiences of scientists, politicians, and military leaders. I presented my findings to the world's most esteemed universities as the world's most advanced research centers poured over the notes and photographs I had taken and the samples of soil, plants, tissues and hair I had gathered. The books I brought back, written by the *Homo geneous* themselves, puzzled everyone.
Then, the public began to suspect that I had no intention of letting Schrodinger's cat out of its box. The public perception was that I was somehow attempting to slow the military and scientific efforts being made to locate the village of *Homo geneous*. Eventually, public disdain came to a confluence of backlash and threats. Where I once spoke freely on my discovery, I now found myself defending my ignorance and attempting to prove a negative. I had no idea from where I had returned and I had no way to prove it.

I was interrogated and denounced. I was found guilty of tax evasion, abandonment, and fraud. I was fired, exhiled, and eventually imprisoned. Through all of it, I still owned my decisions and, for better or worse, I owned my convictions. Having lost all positions and possessions, my strife increased geometrically.