#An Introduction to *Homo geneous*

I have set these notes from early lectures and seminars aside with instructions for my assistant to distribute them to you. As you read these notes, know that I, like any scientist, never knows the entire truth behind our own discoveries. But, as I said before, I am no scientist.

## SociobiologyI would like to begin with an account of the sociobiology of *Homo geneous*. Perhaps, the first thing to note is that all males look and act alike, as do all females. In my three solitary years of studying them, I only ever once witnessed an interaction indicating that any of them could recognize any of them. In fact, they seemed to make every effort to remain completely anonymous.
There is no family structure, no personal wealth, no permanent occupations, and no names. I concluded that this was because all of these would establish recognizable identities. Of course, there was wealth and there were occupations, though these were distributed equitably on a *per diem* basis. Whatever you were on a given day, in a particular place, at a specific moment would only temporarily brand you with a label, which could only loosely be interpreted as a name.
As it was, if there were distinct and unique identities among the *Homo geneous* of Bath, they were the sole and private property of their owners. Reflecting back, I now see that each *Homo geneous* had greater individual wealth and more private property than most any *Homo sapiens*. Yet, every *Homo geneous* conformed to an average image and demeanor, around which, little or no variation existed.Interactions among individual *Homo geneous* were almost always polite. I never witnessed a fight or aggressive display or moment of overt hostility within my three years of studying their village, which was of no small size. Rest assured, I will eventually describe the village of Bath to you. However, I am sure that each citizen of Bath felt the hesitation of confronting equally matched competitors and avoided any risk of elevating competitors to the level of 'opponents'. 
As a member of *Homo sapiens* you may think the average *Homo geneous* to be a coward. You may think the entire village of Bath to be an impossible rose garden and that I, like so many have already said, are leading you down the pacifist's primrose path. If so, you would be wrong and, if you were to think a bit more about it, you would realize that every *Homo geneous* was the average *Homo geneous*; not a single one was above or below average.
Among the members of our own species, it is common to think that one's self is above average and to attribute any sign of the contrary to extenuating circumstance. But our delusion is not only inaccurate, it is mathematically impossible. We are not all above average. In fact, most of us are well below average when being below signifies being inept. Yet, not only does our average *Homo sapiens* transform neighbors into competitors and competitors into opponents, but raises opponents to the elevated rank of enemy. Among the *Homo geneous*, this is impossible. A history of drinking and overt conflit, whether real or imagined, is generally needed to ferment an opponent into an enemy, and any memory of competition among the *Homo geneous* is quickly decanted, diffused, and lost. I only ever saw a single drunken *Homo geneous*.
Because all evidence points to an event of speciation from somewhere along the line leading to *Homo sapiens*, the aggression that our species experiences on an everyday basis and the frequency with which we attempt to use that aggression, must have been strongly selected against among *Homo geneous*. I once lectured on how an ecological catastrophe could have culled the genetic diversity from their ancestral population. Individuals that chose to fight equally-matched competitors for food, shelter, and mates stood a much higher risk of incurring a wound or injury or lack of energy that would have been fatal in more primitive, hostile, and less predictable environments where predation and disease were more prevalent.
That said, I have seen frustration and anger among the *Homo geneous*. I simply rarely saw instances where it was directed towards others. In fact, the differences in aggression and violence between *Homo geneous* and *Homo sapiens* may be somewhat similar to the differences in aggression seen among Chimpanzees and Bonobos. That is, very similar primates that exhibit strikingly different levels of hostility. I am, as I always admitted, deathly afraid of Chimpanzees and *Homo sapiens*.
Consider this, if you are a *Homo geneous* then you have one opportunity to reproduce and you can only do that by making your way in a world of identical competitors that are equally matched in every way with the only difference among the sexes being among the sex organs and a superficial morphology. In short, it is in the best interest of every *Homo geneous* to live peacefully and cooperate. I suppose I should explain why you, if you were a *Homo geneous*, would have only one chance to reproduce.

## Reproduction and developmental biologyThe young of *Homo geneous* are precocial and so, are capable of foraging and protecting themselves soon after birth. The male parent dies almost immediately after copulation and the female parent dies soon after birth. As a result of their semelparous reproduction, similar to that of salmon and many insects, *Homo geneous* do not experience the drawn-out senescence that is typical of *Homo sapiens* and other primates. Instead, the adults of *Homo geneous* reproduce once and die very shortly afterwards. Unlike salmon but still like insects, the young are cannibalistic and, from what I can tell, they consume the parents within forty eight hours of birth and grow rapidly to adult size during that time.
In terms of courtship, this is what I have observed. A male and female enter a studio apartment of approximately fifteen hundred square feet. They drink three or more glasses of wine and then copulate. The male then dies immediately after. The young develop rapidly inside the female and are born within twenty-four hours. Fetal development causes systemic damage to the mothers organ systems and should result in rapid depletion of nutrients and fat stores, extensive self-digestion of the muscle tissues, severe dehydration, and pregnancy-related diabetes where hypoglycemia is induced by the severe reduction of blood glucose. 
One positive consequence of the mother's rapid deterioration is the quick destruction of the females brain caused by lack of glucose and the nearly comatose state of immobility that is induced by severe hypoglycemia. The female becomes immobilized and loses consciousness. Another positive outcome for the offspring is the degradation and weakening of tissues around the birth canal, which would allow for ease of a passive delivery or, from what I have observed, of active emergence.

Death of the mother ensues immediately after the infants first feeding where, much like marsupials, the young climb the mothers torso to suckle. Three days later, after having consumed the remains of the parents, twin siblings, one male and one female, emerge from the apartment, fully grown, well-dressed, and eager to enter into polite society.I was horrified during those first few times I observed the courtship, gestation, and birth of *Homo geneous*. I immediately thought past the seeming impossibility of it and focused more intently on how all this could take place and seemingly not wreck the minds of the quickly developing young and absolutely deter them from ever having sex with anyone but themselves. How could the population endure knowing that at any given moment, in the next apartment over, that death and cannibalism were taking place? And then to perhaps witness the well-dressed young cannibals emerging as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened? Moreover, that the two entering the apartment looked exactly like the two exiting it! 
My answer to your questions, if of the tolerance of a species for its own reproduction biology, is simply that if you were there to wonder about it, you were one of them if you were not me.
Clearly, the reproductive biology and the evolutionary traits that allow for it, make *Homo geneous* unique among all mammals. However, I would argue that the initial evolutionary departure of *Homo geneous*  from our own species most likely owes to a single ecological catastrophe. This event would have decimated the genetic diversity of a population of modern *Homo*, perhaps one that was already predisposed to premature births of obese and self-entitled children.


## Speciation and evolution
In its evolutionary departure from *Homo sapiens*, *Homo geneous* evolved towards ever increasing similarity within the sexes. I say this because there has never been evidence of such an extreme lack of sexual dimorphism in the entire evolutionary history of the *Homo* genus. This meant that differences in size, strength, and intelligence that once granted exceptional individuals exceptional opportunities were, at some point, selected against. Instead, *Homo geneous* must have evolved under severe selection for sophisticated social bargaining.

In the case of *Homo geneous*, the advent of their speciation was, as much as I can discern, caused by a catastrophe that sent a small geographically isolated population of early modern human careening off the rails of hominid evolution and speciating towards the current state of homogenized sexual morphology. This population preference for an honest set of near perfectly heritable and honest traits likely created a positive feedback for increased similarity within the sexes; a vicious cycle of natural selection for decreasing deviations from the optimal combination of traits. 
Now, in both *Homo sapiens* and *Homo neutralis* societies, sexual selection favors individuals that represent the closest thing to an optimal solution that the population gene pool has to offer. But, among *Homo sapiens*, one set of traits not conferring sterility or a severe handicap is nearly as suitable as any other for throwing genes into the next generation. The distribution of optimality has many modes. Among *Homo geneous*, the optimal choice for a mate became aggregated at two suites of traits representing two population averages, one for males and one for females.Now, I would not pretend that a sexual species would persist in the hands of individuals incapable of recognizing who best, with which, to have sex. Notice that I did not say “which with, to bear and raise children”. For *Homo neutralis*, sex and death are bedfellows that bear precocious cannibals. Still, many sexual animal species reproduce without providing parental care, but I understand why one might see this as an odd or maladaptive strategy for any species of mammal. Mammals need milk and how is milk to be provided if the mother is absent? Large mammals require years to mature and days to years to walk. Mammalian infants require shelter and how is that to be provided by absentee parents? Humans are psychosocially complex creatures that spend nearly two decades learning how to navigate their competitive and often merciless societies. How is that to be accomplished without biological or adopted parents?I would also not pretend that a species of human would persist in the hands of deadbeat parents and I insist that one only needs to examine the facts to see that *Homo geneous* are anything but. I have already proposed that the young are precocial and rapidly grow to a functioning adult form in two days time by feeding on the bodies of their dead parents. This life strategy has been pursued countless times by very successful invertebrates. I have also proposed mechanisms that reinforce the inability of the parents to abandon or to kill their offspring. I cannot pretend to know how these severe departures from normative human and mammalian evolution evolved. Rest assured, the species would not have evolved not having solved the problems you are pondering. That they exist necessitates that they have.How then, is it possible that a species of human could be semelparous, that is, reproduce once and die soon after? I do not pretend to know how a species of human could be more similar to a species of fish than to another species of human in its reproductive biology, except to say that humans are mammals and mammals evolved from something nearly reptilian that had evolved from something amphibian that had long since evolved from fish. Every now and again, biology back-tracks and a child with webbed-finned fingers is born.
Luckily, modern classification systems of evolutionary biology are not based on superficialities. No. Modern evolutionary biology is one of our most sophisticated sciences and is based on intersections of fossil, histological, and molecular evidence. Consequently, *Homo geneous* along with whales and dolphins, are mammals and are not fish. More precisely *Homo geneous* is most certainly *Homo*.
It is also well known that interesting and uncommon reproductive strategies can be found in stable environments and that this makes good evolutionary sense. For example, if a species converges on some optimal set of traits then the mode of reproduction could change to conserve that set of traits. In lizards of the American southwest, this has resulted in species composed entirely of females that fertilize their own eggs and produce young without ever copulating with a male. This form of individual cloning is still sexual reproduction, it simply happens with one’s self.
While there are many pressures for the young of vulnerable or highly competitive populations to develop quickly, I have no explanation for how the offspring of *Homo geneous* grow to adulthood in three days or less. In the case of cannibalism, well that is much easier to explain than their bolting development. Of course, ease of explanation does not imply accuracy. But the fact is that quickly growing offspring need a quantity and composition of nutrition that is capable of providing the building blocks for more than a hundred pounds of human tissue in under three days. Likewise, the young need water and to be inoculated with the proper microorganismal culture. All of this, except for perhaps water consumption, can be provided for by the parents, post mortem. Of course, there is water available from the tap.
## Sexual selectionAs you know, evolutionary change through sexual reproduction is brought about by individuals that outcompete their peers in a subconscious race to reproduce, which is fueled by the very conscious race of having sex with someone with whom others want to have sex. Now, in societies of *Homo sapiens*, desirable means exceptionally attractive, exceptionally convenient, or exceptionally similar in attractiveness to oneself. In stark contrast, within *Homo geneous* society, desirable means exceptionally close to the population average, that is, how most people of the opposite sex look and act. Exceptionally average is exceptionally desirable among the *Homo geneous*.
Envision that nearly all human traits have near perfect heritability. Beautiful athletic couples always bear beautiful athletic children, smart creative couples always bear smart creative children, and reliable rational people would always bear reliable rational children right on time and without excessive screaming. Likewise, over aggressive people with a host of physical asymmetries and maladaptive stress responses almost always bear children that blame their parents for everything bad that happens to them.
If all this were true and if some combination of traits led to better chances of living long enough to have sex, then a population might hone in on a super sexy set of traits. Indeed, any trait that is evolutionarily important must, to some degree, be heritable. Likewise, heritable traits have to confer some degree of honesty. Looking strong and healthy should usually mean being strong and healthy. Otherwise, sexual selection would be nothing more than a random pull from a grab bag of liars. Now, envision what might happen if the evolution of a sentient social species had the knobs on genetic heritability and phenotypic honesty cranked off their threads.
Over many generations of runaway selection towards the population average, near perfectly heritable traits could become linked such that individuals nearly always have all of the preferable traits or none of them at all. *Homo sapiens* has forced this situation on scores of plants and animals, so do not let this pose an intellectual challenge for you. Of course, the traits of most any species are typically far from perfectly heritable or perfectly honest. However, *Homo geneous* is not just any species. To be sure, if any modern species of human were to impose a regime of selection on themselves for the honest expression and near perfect heritability of traits, one might wonder what crimes against humanity were committed to make it so.

## Ecology and CompetitionAmong *Homo sapiens*, competition is undertaken by attempting to overcome aggressive competitors. What ensues is often hostile and conducted because the hostility itself is entertaining to those who dare not or cannot compete but who do not mind managing, that is, conducting. Among the common ingredients of aggressive competition is a belief in superiority; that the Universe is on one side or the other. That there is a chosen one or even a chosen people. Among the *Homo geneous*, this is Lunacy. I will describe the proto-religion that came to be called Lunacy, in future entries.Students of ecology are taught that the effects of competition on competitors is nearly always negative. Competition, as I am sure the reader is well aware, is one of the most important ecological mechanisms by which individuals, populations, and species flourish, fail, crush, collapse, or coexist. But whether in ecology, business or boxing, competing takes from all takers. The effort alone takes time, money, blood, sweat, tears; in short, things most of us do not want wasted. 
Though only one may win, all will suffer for having tested their mettle by meddling with those who ought not to be meddled with. Of course, one might be able to increase one's chance of winning by trying harder, but that requires risking more. In the long run, going for broke usually just means getting broken. I suppose that *Homo geneous* saw an alternative to such ham-fisted ways of getting one's way. This was perhaps made possible by virtue of being homogeneous within the sexes or by virtue of being in possession of minds more appreciative of risk than that of your typical wise man. 
The entire species of *Homo geneous* must realized early in their evolutionary departure from some common ancestor that one could increase one's profits by balancing cost and risk. Of course *Homo sapiens* eventually arrived at the same conclusion, but outside business, generally considers it to be a rather boring way to delay a glorious death. In fact, the species-wide decision of *Homo geneous* must have been made before any of them realized the potential for transacting the worth of real world goods and services for symbolic tokens, such as coins. Otherwise, I am sure that *Homo geneous* is not above prospect of hiring others to do their fighting for them.
I would guess that *Homo geneous* realized that the game of life can be long and that most successful people plan to live a long lives. As it is, I think they realized that the most successful life strategies are not the exciting ‘go for broke’ sort we like to see from others but rarely attempt ourselves. No. Most of the most successful life strategies are pretty boring. For example, what one should really want in the long term is to maximize the average payoff in a compromise to minimize cost. But boy, is that boring!

## Concluding remarksThink of *Homo geneous* as a long-lost sister of *Homo sapiens* that went careening off the *Homo* trajectory, perhaps ever since their speciation, say, from *Homo habilis*. Perhaps, *Homo geneous* was a population of *Homo sapiens* that suffered some genetic bottleneck. That is, some disastrous plague or war that crushed the population and leveled it to a barely sustainable fraction of what it once was. 

Personally, I think of *Homo geneous* as the love-child of Henry David Thoreau and Emma Goldman, or as the offspring of an anarchic artisan population that inhabited some unknown province in what seemed to be a place near New England. Now, by anarchic, I do not mean the helter-skelter most might imagine. I mean what is exactly meant in the roots of the word, that is, without rule and without rulers. 

I also think of this love-child of nature and free-will as conceived to a scientific rendition of Carmina Burana, a collection of hedonistic poems written centuries ago by the drunken student monks of Paris and set to symphonic bliss several decades ago by Carl Orff. Carmina Burana expresses the beauty of nature and the barabarism of love, a longing for sensuality and the wayward personalities of the per chance conjoined twins, fate and fortune.
Whatever is responsible for the contemporary state of *Homo geneous*, I assure you it was reached by many rounds of natural selection and genetic drift acting on the variation generated by random mutations and the fit of the resulting combinations of phenotypic traits to the environments in which individuals sought to survive by adopting whatever strategies they could. You should know, I was once a scientist. I am no longer and you will no doubt learn why, as you learn more.