# Diary of the Arch-Scientist, natural historian of *Homo geneous*	
## To the reader
-----I, arch-scientist and discoverer of the homogeneous species of human that I have named *Homo geneous*, write this diary to be read upon the event of my death. Why then not call it a journal or a notebook as any scientist might? My answer is simply that I am no scientist, at least, I am no longer.	If you are reading this, then I am dead. Whether by natural causes and peacefully in my sleep or by violent causes and in full awareness, or still by unnatural causes and tortue to reveal the location of a naive species of human or even in suicide to prevent exposing them to the destructive 'wisdom' and manufactured superstitions of *Homo sapiens*, I am dead. If this be the case, then I would rather and for my love of free knowledge among free minds, have the location of *Homo geneous* be known to those whom I know would not seek them out.
But first, I entreat you to hear my story. Only then, will I reveal the location of *Homo geneous*. I will begin by revealing the motivations behind my decisions, which were seeded in the place where I first met The Prophet.
## The name game-----Thoreau thought it would benefit philosophy for people to have no names. He preferred that we be understood in terms of our species, our social ranks, and so forth. Thoreau was aware of the sense of individuality that having a name should imply and knew of the false sense of individuality that most of us exhibit. He credited few of us with any individuality and most of us with none. But, what is the benefit for philosophy? Sparing it from working out the morality behind the imaginary, I suppose.
	Thoreau knew us thoroughly or, more precisely, Thoreau-ghly. Yet, despite its rarity, individuality is not imaginary. Although, putting your finger on the place from where individuality springs is harder done than back-tracking the positions of clouds to the flaps of butterfly wings. Individuality can spring from anywhere and anywhere is as good a place as any for something half imaginary, half arbitrary, and half useless to arise. Thoreau was abstract but also pragmatic. He built his own house and made his own knife when many houses and knives were manufactured and for sale. He did not theorize that these things should be done by writing about them in a utopian novel. No. He did them, wrote about them, and then listed the price of the materials. Thoreau thought that, in providing for himself and in living closer to nature than to people, that he would know himself as an individual by being responsible for and accountable to himself. After all, what good is individuality if not good for the individual?## Indivi(duality)
-----Individuality, as you probably know, does not arise from any one thing in any one place. It, as I am sure already you know, arises from new intersections of old pieces at new places. Whether they are pieces of old jeans sewn together to make new pants or pieces of old genes grown together to make new people, every new individual is a recombination of old and sometimes worn and mutated parts. And, though Thoreau might say you have wasted your new combinations of old parts on merely mediocre achievements, your person is yours to do with as you wish. I think, Dr. Frankenstein would whole-heartedly agree.Your individuality is as much yours to claim, exhibit, hide, and deny as your dreams, fears, honesty, and delusions. Your name, however, is not yours. You did not choose it and you do not own its trademark or attract its copyright. Your name is not yours to do with as you wish. You are legally bound by your state to have it and to present it to any appointed agent or hired officer of your state who wishes to identify your person but could care less about you as an individual.You are no doubt aware of the ‘special snowflake’ theory. Know this. Most real snowflakes go unnoticed while the most noticeable snowflakes hang from doors and windows and are made from bleached treated tree pulp. More pragmatically, more lives are saved on the predictions of snowstorms than of snowflakes. There are more than seven billion human snowflakes and some are very pretty and very popular, but most are made of pulped poplar. Poplar is also popularly used to make veneers.
## Groups and Government----Most people are governed by popular or unpopular groups that attempt to understand people by the groups to which people belong. The clearest example being any government of The People, by The People, and for The People. This is not the same as a government of individual persons, by individual persons, and for individual persons. Take care, People-minded governments carefully protect The People from individual persons.Make no mistake, I am no misanthrope. No. There is simply no point to it. My point is that dealing with people is better off done by dealing with groups. Why, if you think about it, even the most solitary of persons belong to a group of people. If a particular person is only found in elected isolation, that person will thus belong to the group of hermits. Whether a hermit’s name is Harry or Hairy, choosing to live in isolation means choosing to belong to the demographic ‘hermits’. The name of the hermit carries with it only a potential for finding particular habits among particular hermits.As it is, groups are the very best way to govern and understand people without getting to know them. Without inflating what it is to know you, as I am sure you largely lack any honest familiarity with yourself, our world turns on predicting who and what certain people of specific ages having particular levels of education will vote for, work for, and buy for and for how long they will live to keep voting, working, and buying.This is not to say that individuality has no use, no. Only that individuality is only useful to the individual owner. It has no place in government or, at least, among the governed. Governments and groups have no need for your individuality and, in most cases, neither do individuals. Instead, governments, groups, and individuals have a strong need of a society at large, of individuals when necessary, but of themselves especially and in particular.## Give me liberty...with a side of individualityStill, no one well-adjusted person wants to be so fatalistic as to admit that individuality is imaginary. But, individuality, if it occurs at all, is always made manageable and then *ipso facto* becomes imaginary because it no longer exists when and where and within whom we thought it did. Moreover, and however and from whatever it manifests, individuality is not allowed to remain anonymous. Doing so would mean allowing something new to go unnamed and when does that happen?	In effect, and I mean this quite literally in the way that causes cause effects, names are good for few good things. Names for people, as Thoreau thought, are worst of all. Names, he surmised, shackle us to a history that most of us, being mostly unsuccessful at most things including attempting even a few things, are ashamed to face with great honesty. Names make us accountable for decisions, positions, and possessions that we generally regret or could not care to make or have or own again, or own up to having already made.More insidiously, names suggest a sense of individuality that really resides in few of us. But, we do not earnestly want individuality or the uniqueness it implies; not in us and certainly not in others. What we want is individual liberty or individual glory; not individualism or individuality. This is, most probably, because most of us do not think that highly of most people and think even less of people who act out, that is, those so-called 'individuals'.Yet, there are many more people than there are names and most people choose only popular names for their children. Popular names for poplar snowflakes. What a dismal prospect! What an even more dismal attitude. My dearest apologies to you, my earnest reader who have no doubt named your child Snowflake, River, Seamus, or Gwendolyn. Still, and in most of us, names confuse the idea of identity with that of individuality. What we imply when extoling the virtue of individual liberty is individuality, but what we mean when recognizing the right to have our individual rights recognized, is our identity. “It is my right to go free,” you might say to an officer or soldier, “as your investigation into the information associated with a photograph which is clearly of me, on a card that I handed you, which is the state’s property, reveals that I am a citizen and not wanted for any outstanding violations or criminal acts.”For many of us, acting like an individual means deviating from normative and often safe behavior, and often leads someone else who is charged with the safety of the commonwealth, commonplace, or public property, to examine our identification. Whoever we say we are, by our own accounts, can and will be held against us.
##Strife: What does not kill you, will wait for you to die-----As the reader already knows, most of us eventually becomes legally responsible for our autonomy and very often, for that of a few others. We are social sentient simions and, at some age, are responsible for belonging not only to the groups whose memberships we have sought but also to the groups whose membership we were sewn into. So, if “to be” means “belonging”, then being comes with a reward and punishment before any deed is done. Anyone believing in Original Sin, reincarnation, or inheritance taxes has a vested interest in this paradox.This inevitability, the punishment and suffering for things far outside our control including the ability to always control ourselves, is strife. Strife is as pervasive as it is universal, regardless of how many rule with riches over those who live in rags. Not even the rich are safe from being accountable to the commonwealth or their accountants for being rich. The few of us that suffer little strife take the majority of blame for causing most of it among the masses. I say this, that each person’s strife is the left-handed side of an equation that is mathematically balanced on the right-hand side by the sum, nay, the product of your positions, possessions, and decisions. Incidentally, the Italian for ‘left’ is ‘sinistra’. This sinister equation would then reveal that your strife results from the compounding influence, a multiplicative effect, of your circumstances.By its relentlessness alone, the strife associated with unequal opportunities created by unequal conditions is also the most boring condition of our species. We all know of it. Most of you suffer from it. Some of us simply suffer it. Like the idea of suffering eternal damnation, constant punishment would get tiresome for the punisher and the punished. As any manual laborer can tell you, constant punishment forms a callous. But, what if the main variable in the sinister equation, that is, that particular person to which the other variables belong, what if that main variable was unknown? Say each person were just a number, for the sake of social security, and that the formula for strife were: 
strife(*x*) = *x*/(positions * possessions * decisions) 

If so, my strife would equal 27.3, since I can only account for my last ten thousand decisions. But, what if that sinister side was likewise, unknown? Then you would be *x* and the value of *x* could increase or decrease strife merely by being whatever *x* is, which is left a mystery. If so, then strife and the unholy trinity of that demonic denomerator would always be unknown if *x* was never identified or if any person could be any *x* at any time!But this cannot happen in just any place among any people, whether willing or not. As it happens, it happened among *Homo geneous* on an island that I haphazardly happened upon. Be patient, and I will tell you where you can find it.